Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host as always Ricardo Lobs. And
today I'm joined by Doctor Gwendolyn Dals. She is
Professor of Philosophy at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
and host of the Goodies in the Details podcast.
And today we're talking about existentialism, feminism, the philosophy
of Simone de Beauvoir and other related topics. So,
Doctor Toski, welcome to the show. It's a huge
pleasure to have you
everyone. Thank you for having me.
So let me just start by asking you sort
of a more general question. So you're a philosopher
and people who are not philosophers themselves or might
not think that philosophy? Is that interesting of a
subject? What would you tell them when it comes
to the role that philosophy plays in your own
personal life? And it, and that it can also
play in people's lives more generally.
Yeah, I think i it, it's a good question
to start out. A lot of times when I
say I study philosophy or I teach philosophy, there
will be some random person who say, oh philosophy,
there's like no right answer and then I have
to stop and say OK, let's examine that claim.
Let's do philosophy here. If there is no right
answer, then you're presupposing a definition of right in
order for you to make that claim. So if
there is no right answer, then that claim could
not possibly be right. So that's what philosophy does
philosophy examines the ideas that underscore our view of
the world, our assumptions about the world. Philosophy is
ultimately a wonderment. How does this work? How, how
does that work? I also talk about it in
terms of problem solving, but it's a unique type
of problem solving. So for example, I have my
phone here. If we were to say, does this
phone exist? It would be a very short conversation.
Um If we were in person, we could use
the five senses, you can hear it, I guess,
smell it, see it all the five senses to
establish that this is here. Now, if I want
to ask the question, what is justice that requires
a different set of thinking skills? We do not
have the five senses to come to a conclusion
because it doesn't occupy space. So I say philosophy
is problem solving for things that don't occupy space.
Like what is justice? What is beauty? What is
goodness? Um What does it mean to be virtuous,
to be a good person? What is good character?
And so those are the types of things that
philosophy deals with. And when we have an understanding
of that like justice or rightness or wrongness that
underscores the way we can address things in our
everyday lives, how we teach our Children, for instance,
you know, do not steal. I mean, why, why
not really like philosophy can answer the question of
where do we get these ideas? But the same
thing with our own judicial system in a court
of law, it's important to be able to establish
the distinction between rightness and wrongness before law can
even be established.
So uh I'm a big fan of your podcast.
Goodies in the details. I've listened to a lot
of uh its episodes. I mean, not all of
them, of course, but lots of them. And uh
I would like to ask you what goals did
you have in mind when you started your podcast?
I mean, did you have specific goals in mind
and why do you explore the kinds of topics
you explore there and try to expose them to
a more to a wider audience?
Yeah, I mean, it started out really as a
hunch. So in teaching philosophy, I have a lot
of students who come through for General General Ed,
meaning that the university requires them no matter what
your major is to take a few subjects outside
of your major. The overwhelming majority of my students
in my philosophy classes are in that camp where
they're majoring in something like engineering or literature, but
they have to squeeze in an extra class. So
I would have these wonderful conversations with my students
at the end of the semester long after the
semester, I'd get these emails saying they saw this
movie that reminded me, that reminded them of something
from our class. Just there was a lot of
joy in being introduced to the subject. And so
I had a hunch of why do we need
to gate keep gatekeep this behind the university walls.
This should be available for everyone. Now, it was
just a hunch to go ahead and tackle these
philosophical issues that we do on goodies in the
details. But shortly in it caught on to a
broad audience, which is what I wanted. But I
didn't, I didn't really expect that. And so the
success of the podcast has been very exciting where
we have academics from different areas. We have people
from medicine to comedy and entertainment, come on and
we want to get to the ideas that underscore
their work and the purpose of the show. I
think first of all, it's personal enjoyment. I can't,
I can't get around that if someone would be
like, why do you do this? I'm like, because
it makes me happy. It's just an absolute delight
to be able to tap into some of the
best talent and have an hour of their time
to discuss their work. But the other thing that
Rudy, my co-host Rudy Salo and I, we genuinely
believe that one of the pillars to happiness and
to enjoying one's life is intellectual growth, that foundation
of curiosity. And so a lot of times when
people talk about happiness and this is 100% correct.
We talk about the physical like move, take a
walk, we talk about the spiritual, which appeals to
a lot, a lot of people. Um WE talk
about emotional things and relationships. All of those are
part and parcel of a good life in addition
to curiosity and intellectual development. Another thing that we
really want to have is our goal is that
when somebody listens to the episode that they learn
something that they didn't know, they didn't know. And
we always say that that's in the spirit of
Socrates. One of the greatest lessons I think that
we learn from Socrates is this idea that when
you dialogue with others, when you have this mission
for self improvement, that it requires engagement with others
and not just a retreat from the world, but
the more you learn, then the more humble you
become not arrogant, arrogance comes from when you think
you know everything humility and curiosity and joy come
from learning more and then knowing that there's more
to learn. And so that's what Rudy and I
are doing for ourselves. And we want the audience
to be on that journey with us.
Great. So, I mean, the questions I'm going to
ask you are most of them. At least you
explore in your podcast. And a, as a philosopher,
of course, there are an immense amount of topics
that you could be interested in. But uh I
noticed that you are particularly interested in existentialism and
more specifically the philosophy of Simone de Beauvoir. So
what got you interested in existentialism? And then her
specifically,
I, I think I was in graduate school and
I was assigned something by the philosopher Kirkegaard. I
think it was either or and after coming from
a tradition of analytic philosophy, um I, I was
stunned when I was reading care, I was that
I didn't know that this type of thinking existed.
Now. One of the things that I've loved that
ever since I was a child is that I
am a bookworm. I am constantly reading fiction. It
is how I unwind the way people do. Netflix
Binges for instance, is what I'll do with like
mystery genres. Um I'm completely in love with them.
So I had always separated that love for fiction
from my enjoyment of philosophy. I loved the analytic
tradition of thinking about what is justice or how
do you put together, um you know, arguments and
how do you dismantle arguments? It's a different type
of thinking. It's more of like a mathematical type
thinking. Whereas fiction was for my imagination and joy.
When I came across Kirkegaard, it was the first
time that I saw you could do both. Uh
I think my daughter is gonna come in the
books that you could actually do both. And um
what I was gonna say before I, before I
take off, um is that with Kirkegaard, the way
in which he approached philosophy was, he saw the
analytic tradition and he was saying, we still need
to know what it means to be human. That
philosophy is avoiding the most interesting question. He said,
subjectivity is the case in point. It doesn't mean
that everything is subjective. It's that the most unique
and interesting thing about our existence is not discovering
absolutes, but it's an understanding our unique position and
the way in which we experience the world. And
he used pseudonyms and a bit of fiction in
order to come across in order to make that
point. And then I started to study that tradition
and I fell in love with Simone de Boire.
So then what got me into Simone de Bois?
I remember it specifically. Now people, some people might
not know this people outside of academia. But um
philosophy is a male dominated field. I never even
read any women philosophy. It wasn't until I was
in my first year of my master's program that
I asked a professor, what um are there any
female philosophers like I didn't even know that if
they existed or not. And so he gave me
a little book by um Hannah and that was
my first introduction to being like, oh women philosophers
do exist. Then fast forward about another year. It
was a summer holiday, a summer break and I
decided to sit down and read the work of
Simon de be before. I thought, who is this
woman? So I did it on my own. Never
from a class or anything like that. And the
first thing I picked up was her fiction. All
Men are Mortal. And I remember being at a
cafe and getting that and I didn't, I didn't
move. I was just so stunned and so intrigued
by this novel that then I had to read
everything else by her. And I think that what
it wasn't just that she was a woman philosopher.
It wasn't just that she was an existentialist. I
think the fact that she was also in literature
and writing fiction in order to be philosophical was
what really interested me.
Mhm. No, I, I have to tell you that
I'm also very much into existentialism and Simone de
Beauvoir specifically is probably in the top three of
my favorite philosophers. I mean, number one is diogenes,
number two is Nietzsche. And then probably Simone de
Beauvoir. I, I mean, Nietzsche, it, it's not because
he's a man, of course, because it doesn't matter
to me at all if someone is a man
or a woman philosopher. But uh I just like
him a little bit better than the bavois perhaps
because he was very influential for uh French existentialists.
But a anyway, uh I, I th those are
my preferences and the respect of bois very, very,
very much. And, uh talking about that, well, you're
also interested in feminism. Where would you place the,
the bois in the history of feminism? I mean,
how important would you say she is in that
history? And in what ways do you think feminism
would intersect with existentialism?
Yeah, I think she is, she's extremely, extremely important.
Um, I would say one of the first works
of feminist writing in philosophy. Um It might go
back to a thinker by the name of Mary
Wilson Craft. And I always tell my students, I
say you may not have heard of Mary Wilson
Craft, but you've definitely heard of her daughter. So
Mary Wilson Craft was writing in the late 17
hundreds. And it makes sense that in the West,
we, you had this upheaval of the American revolution,
the French revolution, there was this upheaval in the
west of we can govern ourselves. And Mary Wilson
craft was very much situated in that time frame
and writing that women ought to have the right
to education. And in order for her to even
make the point that women should be able to
be educated, she had to backtrack about a lot
of assumptions about women based on the body into
which they were born, namely this idea that for
a woman to be virtuous or good meant that
she was obedient. And Mary Wilson Craft was saying,
but that's not what virtue is virtue, by definition
is using reason to make ethical decisions. If you
deprive a woman of education, you're depriving her of
reason. Therefore, you're depriving her of the possibility of
being virtuous. So Mary Wilson craft really laid out
this argument of the problems of presupposing what a
person is capable of based on the body in
which they were born. And she did that using
virtue theory. 200 years later, you have Simone de
Bois and Simon Bear is in that same vein.
But she's really picking apart this idea of existentialism
that in, in existentialism, she is rejecting the idea
of order. She's rejecting the idea that there is
human nature. She is um an advocate for freedom
that we always have choice, but something that she
was able to accomplish that her male counterparts, people
like. So people like Kamu were not able to
accomplish is that she really um drove home the
importance of being in a body. And the history
of philosophy with male thinkers have not had taken
for granted the the body. And it took somebody
who was kind of on the outside of the
tradition like Simone de Boire to be like, no,
wait, I have to interact in a world. I
can't, I'm not just a mind, I'm not just
a floating thought bubble that is being rational. I
have to interact in a world that is hostile
to me that is telling me what I can
and cannot do that has created a bunch of
rules for way I'm supposed to behave. So women
would have this extra existential trek if you will,
that they're not just thrown into existence, but they're
thrown into a world that is not structured for
them. And so in order for them to be
successful, they have these extra hurdles that is extremely
important. The Simone de Bobois prioritized the way in
which we are in a body. AND that is
how our freedom is engaged with that extra caveat.
And the reason why bobois is so important is
because you can even look at the trajectory of
feminist thought where it still has that same principle
of let's have um a conversation, an authentic conversation
about what it is like to be born in
a body and that that body is interacting or
being commented on treated legally, socially, economically different. And
that opened up the doors for a lot of
work, especially for women of color who have said,
wait, the way that the world treats us is
different from, let's say a white woman. But we're
able to kind of have conversations and understand that
reality, I think because Beauvoir was putting into the
ethos if you will, that it is relevant, that
it is relevant. We can't just talk about, oh,
you know, you are free to make decisions to
do whatever you want. No, that we kind of
find out who we are in situation and some
situations are more complex or cause more of an
obstacle than other situations. So as a woman, for
instance, in my little girl, I have different um
obstacles in the world than Amanda. And this um
can be like just in terms of the way
that I'm treated, let's say, historically, the way that
women are treated economically in athletics, in medicine. And
that's something to take into account when we're figuring
out our existence. So I think Simone de bois
and feminism are, they're very, very relevant. They're very,
they're very important. And I love how Simone De
Boar puts existentialism as the lens for feminism where
she's still highlighting the importance of subjectivity and the
way in which, um, the uniqueness of our existence.
And if, if, is it OK, if I give
an example, because there's a novella by far that
I'm in love with and it's, that drives home
this point to me. Now, this is a novella
called The Woman Destroyed. And when I first read
it, when I was in graduate school, it didn't
really resonate with me. Um, I loved all men
are mortal. I loved the Mandarins. And then of
course, her philosophical pieces like the second sex and,
um, the ethics of ambiguity. But later I reread
The Woman Destroyed. And I thought, hm, it gave
me pause. Now I'm 46 20 years away, over
20 years from the first time I read it
and I read it over and over again, for
one of the classes that I teach. And without
exception, every time I read it, I have to
sit down and be alone with myself because I
am just astonished at what she accomplished in this
novella and why I didn't get it when I
was in my twenties. And at the time that
Beauvoir published this, she was, she was older. And
so she's writing um in a diary format, the
trajectory of the demise of a woman who this
woman, Monique is writing a diary about how her
life is falling apart. Her kids are grown and
her husband is moving on with the mistress and
she doesn't know what to do. And so this
question of destroyed is so important because you have
to ask yourself what is being destroyed? Is it
the version of herself or is she destroyed? And
the reason why it always resonates with me now
is because there's such a difference between being a
feminist in your twenties to being a feminist in
your forties. When you're a feminist in your twenties,
you're rejecting this idea that you're only good for
X, that you're only good for reproduction. For instance,
you're only good as a wife and a mother
in your forties. You're rejecting the idea that you're
not good at all because you're past the the
baby making point. So the feminist in her forties
is has a different calling being like I still
matter. I still exist. Whereas in your twenties. You're
like, I don't just exist for you in your
forties, fifties, sixties, you're arguing that you still matter
because everything is placed on that baby making era.
The goodness of women and the tragedy of the
woman destroyed is that Monique bought into the idea
that that was her value and she's finding out
that it's not and everybody's moving on. Her kids
are moving on. Her husband is moving on. And
I think it's such an important lesson because it
is this idea of accepting that there is truth
in our choices. But also trying to sit back
and wonder what choice was mine. Am I just
living according to what other people decided was of
value for me. How do we find out what
is valuable? And then also we have that opportunity
to grow and change just because you thought something
was really cool in your twenties, doesn't mean it
still has to be cool in your forties. You
can, you can do whatever you want. You can
train to run a marathon, you can redefine yourself.
You can say, you know what I'm gonna learn
how to cook. I've never cooked before. You can
say I'm gonna learn Sanskrit. I don't know like
there are all of these possibilities and what it
means to be human. And the scary part in
the novella, The woman destroyed is how often we
ignore all of the possibilities and potential for our
life. We're not just a thing. We're not just
a role and that is an existentialist and a
feminist position. And also keeping in mind that Simone
Bobo was born, I wanna say it was like
1908, 1906 or 1908. That her love of literature
and philosophy, she didn't have a huge catalog of
women to read. So what she did is she
starts to introduce different female characters who have different
points of view. Whereas before her, a lot of
female characters, when they were introduced, the fact that
they were women was the character that that's it.
But what Simone Du Boi in her, in her
novels and novellas is giving different, different character traits
to different women. And she's doing that and pioneering
that there wasn't that much to go on with
writers before her. There's a few but not that
many.
Mhm. You know, one thing that I find really
interesting about all of this is the ways in
which, uh feminism might intersect with the existentialism, existentialism
in its more individualistic aspects. Because when it comes
to the feminist side of things, it seems to
me that there are these sort of common experiences
that someone who identifies, uh, within the social category
of women, uh, tend to experience collectively. But also,
uh, there are individual traits that different women have
and that's where each of them might develop differently,
even though they might share a common experiences, socially,
politically, et cetera.
Yeah. Well, I mean, in the United States there's
definitely, um, I wanna figure out how to say
this. There's, uh, I'll just give the example of
white women and black women, American women. Um, THERE'S
a really different experience of the world and something
that a lot of black women writers and thinkers
have tried to and I think successfully, I don't
want to say just tried but to really, um
flesh out that distinction, that importance and that it's
not, you know, it's not nothing, it's, it's treated
differently. You know, women are treated differently economically in
interpersonal relationships. And so I think that what existentialism
allows us to do is to step away from
categorizing and really respecting and honoring that there are
um different uh different things in life where there's
different rules. There's a lot of rules that people
are supposed to be following that are simply the
creation of man, you know, and it, it can
change. But I think that existentialism gives us that
space to appreciate and acknowledge that when somebody is
saying this is my experience of the world to
take that seriously.
What does it mean to not really being born
a woman but becoming a woman? What does that
mean? It is, you know, I, I'm wondering if
anybody really did that before her. And it's so
funny today that this book when she wrote that
is 80 years ago and today in the United
States, there's a lot of tension over this idea
of what do you mean, what is a woman
like, kind of mocking this idea when it comes
to um issues with um transgender, transgender people. And
I'm thinking before I raised this 80 years ago
and it's what she is talking about. I'm afraid
I'm gonna, I'm gonna like Buzzfeed this make it
too small. But it is so interesting that the
idea of what it means to be a woman
cannot just be reduced to physicality. It is something
or biology. It is a cultural thing. And I
know today there's a lot of resistance to that
because of the issues of transgender. Um But I
mean, all you have to do is go around
the world and see what it means to be
a woman. You can see that there are different
expectations, there are all these cultural things that are
embedded. Um And if we say that like, like
today, if you were to say, well, what is
a man? And you were to describe a man
as like with short hair and wears pants. That's
absurd. I can show you a picture of people
throughout history of men who are definitely men, but
that is not the costume they were wearing at
the time. So what she is saying is that
to be a woman is not the same thing
as female, which is an idea of the biology.
But the woman is a type of what Judith
Butler would call a type of performance or presentation.
Um It's abiding by a lot of rules. This
is really important. I'm trying to collect my thoughts
on this because this actually reminds me of what
Mary Woolton Craft couple 100 years later was trying
to say, is that trying to make a person
fit into what you think is natural, is problematic.
And that's what Boudoir is also tackling is that
women are reduced to nature, They're naturally X or
they're naturally Y. And it's incredibly problematic because there's
no evidence as to what the nature of a
woman is. So if somebody wants to um say,
well, women are naturally, you know, mothers or instinctual
or they naturally want to have Children or they
should have Children because that is natural. And you
notice that that always goes for women. We don't
talk about men naturally that way. In the same
way, men, naturally, we say like, oh they're, they're
rational. They naturally want to go and create and
build. But women are supposed to be making babies
because they have that capacity. So this is one
of the problems with it. And this is definitely
me being influenced by Simon de bei is that
because you have the biological capacity for something, it
doesn't follow that you should do that. We're putting
that burden on women, you have the biological capacity
for lots of things. The human brain, for instance,
has the biological capacity to know several different languages
would we tell men you should or you, you
ought to know six different languages fluently because it's
naturally you're capable of doing that. Therefore, you're wrong
and not doing it. Or here's another thing, the
human body is capable of long distance movement. That's
one of the distinguishing traits of Homo SAPIEN. How
many marathons have you done? It's natural. You should
do that. No, it's, but we're so comfortable saying
that because women have this biological capacity that then
they should do it. But we don't do that
burden in any other way. We, you know, the
reason why I don't do marathons because I don't
want to. But that is not how I want
to spend my life. I can't imagine if somebody
were to be like, but you should be, you
ought to, it's moral for you to do it
because it's natural. No. So why would we do
that when it comes to Children? And we don't
do that for men. Men are the causal factors
for pregnancy. We don't say like, oh, you were
supposed to be doing that. We never reduce men
to their biological capacity in the way in which
we do that to women. So that's where I
think um this idea of becoming a woman is
really saying you're culturally ascribing to all of the
do s and don't of that society in that
given time frame.
Yeah, I, I mean, I guess that if we
would uh equate uh good with what is natural,
then we would get into very muddy waters because
it's also natural for women to very frequently die
when giving birth. It's also natural for infants to
die during birth. It's also natural for people to
die at 35 or 40 years old. So,
well, what you put there, that's, that's the other
very interesting thing to me is this assumption that
nature or natural is goodness because though all of
human history, what we have done is try to
interrupt nature. That's what technology is. That's what medicine
is. So we don't look at um a hurricane
and be like, that's natural is good. Don't do
anything or we don't look at cancer and be
like it's natural. Everything that we do is to
interrupt the natural course of thing. I mean, even
us having this conversation, it's not natural for the
internet like doing this. So I don't know why
there is there is that presupposition built in there
in terms of natural, that is never really addressed
or explained because in other areas of our life,
we don't really put it up here. We're trying
to do everything to not be natural and Yeah.
Yeah, you're absolutely right. Spot on.
And what does it mean to live uh particularly
from an existentialist perspective, authentically, what does it mean
to be authentic
from an existential point of view? Authenticity? And I
like the word authenticity as opposed to rightness or
wrongness. Um WHAT it means to be human. So
it's kind of tricky because the existential have to
come up with a definition at the same time
saying that they want to avoid definitions and absolutes.
So they came up with something that can encompass
all humans. There is the fact of your existence,
namely when you were born, the body in which
you were born into your first language, geography, economic
bracket. Like there are all these facts of your
existence, your nationality. And that's part of what it
means to be human, that you have these facts.
Then there's also the reality of being human is
transcendence, which means that you're not just the physical
facts of your existence, you can do more. What
it means to live authentically is to accept these
two parts of your existence. So for example, if
I were to say that, oh, I can't study
philosophy, I'm just a woman because it's a male
dominated field that would be bad faith that wouldn't
be authentic. I would be denying something that I
really enjoy. The transcendence is that it is possible
for me to study more and to do more
to not just be in this state of knowledge,
but to do more. That would mean being being
authentic, would be understanding that I really love philosophy
and to pursue it more, it would be bad
faith to say I'm just a woman that means
I'm forgetting the transcendence part of my existence. And
just relying on the facts of my existence. It
would also be inauthentic for me to say, you
know what I can be in the W NBA,
the women's national basketball association. I'm 53 and I'm
terrible at sports. That would be me saying like,
yeah, I can do it. That would be me
being like all transcendence and not facts of my
existence. So to be authentic is to be in
accepting of those two parts of what it means
to be human. Don't say that you can't just
do something because of, you know, the just, just
because of the the age and the time in
which you were born, um have some kind of
love and appreciation for the time in which you
were born, the body into which you were born,
but never use that as a limit to the
things that we're capable of doing, creating, projecting ourselves.
She Beauvoir wrote about that action is project. We
are literally projecting ourselves onto the world when you
create something, when I do the podcast, when I
do good is in the details. I'm projecting myself.
I'm doing the project, putting my stamp on something
new in the world as are you by doing
this? So those are the types of things that
it we want to take into consideration. What does
it mean to be authentic? Am I just living
according to a cultural norm to that, that I
didn't create, that I didn't invent um and to
find happiness in that way, like again, that was
Monique's downfall in the woman destroyed, she just subscribed
to cultural norms and that was it. Um SO
authentic is when you can have that space and
think about um what it is that you enjoy.
What do you want to think about? Um Are
you saying that you like something, you're doing something
just because somebody else said for you to do
it? That's what it means to be authentic, I
think.
And apart from being, from being authentic, what does
it mean to lead a good life, how do
we determine what a good life is? I mean,
is that something that I can do individually for
myself or do I have to follow a specific
steps to find that out?
I think this is something where I'll get into,
um the philosophy because the philosophy of Kamu really,
really stood out to me. I also fell in
love with his work. Um One of his, you
know, famous works in terms of fiction is, um
is the stranger. It's like it's a staple that's
read in high school. I have to tell you,
I fell in love with Kim's work when it
came to the novella, um the fall. And it's
another one of those books that I've read over
and over again. And I always have to sit
with myself afterwards. And also the Myth of Sisyphus.
I'm gonna yield to Kamu here where he is
talking about living, living well or enjoying your life
requires letting go of this idea of order in
the world. He talks about the absurdity of existence,
not as a negative thing, but he says you
have to breathe with the absurd and it can
strike anybody at a street corner. And that for
me was a really beautiful and interesting um view
of existence. If we are trapped in this idea
of order, this is the way things should be.
We are going to suffer a lot because the
reality of things is that, that's not the way
life goes. Like if somebody passes away at a
young age and we say, or they shouldn't have
or it's not supposed to be that way. While
the death is tragic. Obviously, if you are trapped
in this idea of, that's the way that wasn't
supposed to happen, you're gonna have a bigger existential
hurdle than if you accept that the world is
a contradiction has absurdities. And then when you breathe
with it, you're able to have more freedom and
more happiness. And at the end of the myth
of Sisyphus, something that really caught me. I had
to sit and like, think what the hell is
Kamu talking about. But for any of your, for
any of your listeners, the myth of Sisyphus is
the ancient Greek myth where Sisyphus is condemned for
all eternity to push a boulder up a hill.
Only for when he gets up, it falls down
and then he has to go and push it
back up for all eternity, pushing this boulder up
the hill. And Kamu challenges us to think about
our own boulders if you will. And Kamu also
says at the end of the myth of Sisyphus,
after this analysis of it, we must imagine Sisyphus
happy. And I am telling you, I don't, I
didn't see how, how and when it dawned on
me, the one thing that Sisyphus is in control
of is the way in which he views that
situation, the gods were gonna punish him by giving
him something that they thought would be miserable. But,
but Sisyphus is still in charge of the way
in which he thinks he goes down that hill
the way he pushes it up, he still has
control and freedom in those moments. And that's what
it means. I think for authentic living to enjoy
your life, you cannot be condemned. You have to
allow that space that you have the freedom to
interpret whatever situation you are in. You don't have
to take somebody's harsh words, for instance, as a
declaration of who you are, you can say that
person's crazy and toxic and I'm going to withdraw
all my energy instead of focusing in on what
somebody else wants to tell you when somebody else
wants to tell you what your value is or
what you're supposed to do, you can exit that
and think differently of it and think differently about
what your potential or possibility is what you want
to do with your time. So, I think, uh,
excuse me, I think that living well and good
is to, um, be engaged in the way in
which you're participating in the world. Be engaged. Don't,
um, don't be afraid of limitations that other people
want to put on you. Right. Like if somebody
says you're too old to do something like you're
too old to learn how to do blank, forget
it. You're not, you can do whatever you want.
It is such a strange feeling when you just,
it hits you. Like Camus said, you can be
at the street corner and the absurd hits you
when it hits you that you can do whatever
you want, you can think however you want. And
when you are honest about that, then you're able
to be more receptive to other people's humanity as
well. When other people feel stuck or if they're
in a system that is trying to pin them
down when you understand the value of freedom and
that space for thinking, then you're able to appreciate
people when they are in a situation where somebody
is trying to put them down and to try
to assist in that freedom and alleviate and alleviate
that pain or that injustice, I think.
Great. So I guess this is a good point
to ask you about uh let's say a, a
question related to how we uh relate to other
people because of course, human life is not just
about us as individuals, but also there's a big
element of our social lives, how we relate to
other people in different ways. And I know that
you teach, for example, courses on the philosophy of
sex and love. That's a very big component of
how we relate to other people. So, I mean,
from perhaps again, an existentialist perspective, what would you
say? Uh HOW do you look at how the
sexes relate to one another and the role that
things like love, romance and sex play in our
lives?
Yeah, it's, you know, there's been recently a lot
of work on um I know it's an American
culture I can't speak for, for other um other
areas of the world, but that there's been a
bit of a demise. Um There has been this
perceived threat to men and what is considered to
be masculine. And so there's been this backlash of
um of of anger um uh between, between the
sexes in terms of heterosexual relationships. And because there's
been this upheaval in the United States of this
questioning of just the very things that we've been
talking about. Like, do I have to get married?
Do I have to have Children by this age?
Um Can I take care of myself? And so
there have been a lot of shifts and I
want to say a lot of it came from
the seventies and that, and this is so again,
I wanna make sure that I'm clarifying, this is
in American law. But, um, there was a big
shift, I wanna say it was at the very
end of the sixties, one of the biggest shifts
when it came to relationships is that in some
states it was up to the states who they
would marry. So it could be illegal to be,
or it could be perfectly legal to be in
a state where the judge would not marry you
based on race. And that was just in a
few states, not every state, the Supreme Court ruled
that that was illegal in all 50 states. That
was a really big shift in the understanding of
love because remember law is the expression of our
values. And so when the law made it, that
it is legal for you to marry somebody that
is not of the same race, um that started
to put into motion, this idea that you are
allowed to love and to be engaged with people
of your choosing. Like this restriction is lifted. It's
not, you know, it would be considered illegal. It
would be considered in this country. Very dangerous for
black men to be in relationships with white women.
It would be a threat to their lives. That's
how serious it was. So, just on the cusp
of the seventies, you have this big shift in
what is legally allowed in relationships then. You have
this big shift where Title nine is introduced and
Title nine in the seventies said that any public
institution had to give an equal amount of funding
to women's groups, sports as to men. So the
concept of the female athlete is really born because
before that women could play sports, but there was
no coach, there was no team, there were no
uniforms, there was no equipment now that exists. And
now all of a sudden young girls in, let's
say, junior high and high school, they have something
to do after school. They're not just thinking about
their boyfriends, they're not just thinking about how pretty
they are for their boyfriends. They're thinking about a
personal goal where they're working with other young women
to achieve something that's huge. That changes the mindset.
Right. All of a sudden women have something other
to do than worry about their boyfriends or if
they're gonna be picked to be married or whatever
they have goals now that belong to them. Um,
AND then the other change is that in the
late seventies, women could have their own checking account,
their own banking account. This changes everything. Oh, and
no fault, divorce. I'm sorry. Also, this means that
women, well, you could leave a marriage based on
the fact that you don't want to be there
anymore before that you could only get a divorce
if you could prove and it would be up
to a judge to decide that your spouse did
something wrong. You would have to prove that. So,
uh, and it didn't go over well, like there
were some judges that would say things to women.
Like, well, he only hit you twice. You know,
like it would be up to a judge to
decide if you could leave a marriage. So no
fault, divorce, meaning that you don't have to prove
this. Something did something wrong. You can simply just
leave exit that relationship because you don't want to
be in it anymore. Those things changed the trajectory
of relationships because relationships before then depended on economics.
Meaning you did not necessarily have to love who
you were married to. You just had to be
provided for women had to be provided for by
their husbands. And if the husbands wanted to climb
the corporate ladder, they had to show that they
were protecting a wife and kids. So people, the
desire or attraction was not part of the equation.
It was just economic survival. You remove economic survival
because all of a sudden women can have their
own checking accounts. Um Women do not have to
be married in order for economic survival, they can
have their own goals. All of a sudden men
are like they making money is not sufficient for
them to have a wife and for women like
they have all these other choices. And so I,
I don't know, I think that that made improvements.
This is my point of view. But some people
say that was a detriment to relationships from my
point of view. The fact that when you are
with somebody, it is not because you have to,
but it is because you want to. And the
fact that you can exit that relationship is actually
what gives that relationship its value. Knowing that every
day when you wake up, you are choosing to
be with that person and respecting the fact that
that person is choosing to be with you. That
is what gives its value. The fact that they
could choose not to. The fact that when they
are with you every single day is a testament
to their appreciation and reaffirming the choice. It's not
that you just got married one day, but you
don't have to think about it anymore. It's the
fact that yeah, you do and you constantly have
to work together and evolve is what gives it
its value. And so the dynamics have shifted. And
like I said, there's a lot of people who
are not on board with this shift. They want
to say that women are just good for making
babies and for taking care of the home. And
then when they say things like that, women will
say this too. This isn't just men when they
say things like that, then people are saying, well,
you know, you're just not valuing my choice. I
mean, I think there's also this unnecessary tension by
suggesting that women who want to be, stay at
home moms and take care of their Children and
they enjoy the domestic labor and they enjoy taking
care of their man that somehow that is um
negated or not of value or they're not allowed
to want everything all at once. Like have the
career, have the Children, have the hubby. Like there
doesn't need to be that tension. I think the
most important thing is you allow people to discover
what works for them and there shouldn't be a
legal hurdle from that. So the most important thing
is the legal hurdles removed, saying that a woman
like couldn't exit a relationship or couldn't have particular
jobs. That's the most important thing. But culturally is
taking some time to pick up on that one
second. There we go. Ok.
Uh Yeah. So, uh I mean, there are many
aspects to all of this. I'm going to comment
on a few of them and please feel free
to comment on what I'm about to say. But
I guess that first of all, uh I think
it's a bit silly for people to just assume
that women back in the fifties, sixties and even
before that were happy, just Gao's wives because we
know that many of them took psychiatric pills and
got drunk because they couldn't stand their marriages anymore,
but they just couldn't opt out of them. And
then, I mean, when it comes to this more
recent backlash of course, I think it derives very
much from the sort of uh uh cultural norms,
uh uh this cultural legacy that we have from
these gender roles that were established decades ago, centuries
ago. And we also, we still live with that,
or at least people still have that in their
minds collectively. But also, I guess that another aspect
to consider here is the fact that uh economics,
it changed a lot, particularly after the 2008 economic
crisis. I mean, it's much harder now for people
to get stable jobs to get a good income.
And also that also influences people settling down or
getting partners. Because I mean, I always look back
to Japan, for example, in the late eighties, early
nineties where they had a big economic crisis. And
it was exactly at that point where marriage rates
started plummeting and we have much, many more single
people now because before that people went to university
and then they had a guaranteed job because there
were this sort of uh private public relations between
the state and certain big companies in Japan. So
whoever finished university until up, the late eighties would
have a guaranteed job for life. So it would
be almost impossible for them to be fired and
all of that. So there's also that component. And
also, I mean, I think there's also component of
since women started going to university and they found
out that they could have their own careers or
own, earn their own money. They could be more
independent and many women nowadays just report that they
like that kind of thing. I mean, they like
to be independently, they like to earn their own
money. And so many women nowadays just look for
things in their partners beyond them, earning more than
them or something like that. And if men get
into this sort of red pill, black pill men
movement on the internet and so on, then they
hear all the time that it's all because of
feminists, all of women being hyper grams or something
like that, then perhaps they don't develop the sorts
of traits that women, many women nowadays prefer. I
mean, I don't know, what do you think about
all of that?
I do. It's I think one of the mistakes
and this is one of the issues with the
whole nature thing or one becomes a woman. Um
The, the idea is that there was just this,
you know, binary idea of what it meant to
be a man versus a woman. And what we're
finding is that actually this is from Mary Wilson
craft to Simon de bois is that a lot
of the things that were deemed masculine are just
human. And so like me studying philosophy is not
me being masculine, it's me being human or you
know, this idea, like you said, independent, that's not
being masculine, that's just being human. That's what human
beings crave they like creativity. Um They do like
family relationships. So by the same token, um men
who enjoy being fathers, taking care of their babies,
taking care of their Children. Um YOU know, the
that they're not being feminine, they're being human. That's
what it means to be a parent. So a
lot of these ideas about what constitutes femininity and
masculinity. If you notice a lot of the stuff
that's described as masculine is actually human. And then
what is described as feminine is almost animal, like,
like the way we would describe a dog as
being good dog, a great pet. Um OBEDIENT does
what it's a, it has all these lessons. But
what it takes to become feminine to become a
woman requires a lot of training. So for example,
I have a daughter as you've seen her like
run around and everything. She is no different from
the little boys in her preschool just wants to
run around, makes messes falls down, wants to climb
stuff that is just human over time. What people
will do is they'll start to say like quite,
quite, you know, they'll try to, you know, quiet
her or say why don't you play with the
doll instead of the ball like start they so
being feminine requires not taking up space, it requires
being small, being quiet and that is antihuman and
that is training like that's what that is. And
I think the same thing for young men told
not to cry. Now, crying is a human emotion
but being told not to, requires a lot of
training and a lot of stuffing down of feelings
that ends up exploding. So this, you know what
war was suggesting? This idea of, you know, becoming
a woman is really led to the trajectory of
masculine and feminine. When we just scratch the surface,
it's not a natural state at all. It's, it's
not. Um, NOW there are all by the same
token I happen to like a lot of things
that are feminine. I mean, I get my nails
done, I get my hair done. I, I like
pink. I can't help it. I just do, I
will always, I will like pink. Um There are
things like that. There are things like that but
I can't be, I don't want to be pigeonholed
in that I'm not allowed to because I'm because
I'm a feminist or something like that. You know
what I mean? Um I think that we just
have to give people the space to be and
the thread when I thought about it with this
backlash. Um I haven't totally understood it. Like why
is it that people are so upset when men
will be a little bit more feminine or women
are a bit more masculine? Like why are people
so angry about that? And I think it has
to do with, in an economic structure. It has
to do with power that femininity is not, it
does not yield like any kind of economic power.
And so when a man displays anything that would
be deemed feminine, it is such a, it's such
an insult, a loss of power or if women
display any masculine traits, it's a trend to take
of power when really what we are doing is
we're just being like, that's what it is. It's
not trying to like me having my own checking
account, producing a podcast, getting sponsors making money from
that. And then also being in the university system
is not me trying to claim power from somebody
else. I'm not trying to take away from anybody.
It is just me expressing myself and same thing
with, I think that's what Bobo was really advocating
for. When you read her work. It's not um
a lot of it is following the trappings of
not being authentic. It's not like this girl power
thing of wonder woman and women taking over or
anything like that. When you read her stuff, it's
cautionary to see what happens when you don't live
your authentic stealth. Yeah, I think I lost, I
think I lost the, the original question there. I
hope that works.
Uh No, I mean, I just put on the
table several different thoughts that I have about where
this backlash comes from and what led to the
sort of dating slash mating con context that we
live in right now. And uh I just wanted
for you to comment on that. I mean,
yeah, it's huge. Well, I'll, I'll give you one,
I'll give you one example. And this was so,
this was so disturbing and so upsetting and I
brought it up with my class because the philosophy
of sex and love class, the subtitle of it
is current debates and sexuality, which means that whatever
is going on in the news, I didn't realize
there was so much sex in the news. But
there is like, ever since I've been teaching this
class, I like something comes up all the time,
but this came up. This is really, really disturbing
and it generated new laws as a result of
this. But you know, Taylor Swift is like after
Time magazine's People of the year, she's on top
of her game, right? And what was the backlash
to that? Somebody decided to generate a I um
pornographic images of her and put it on the
internet and it took a good, like it took
a good like 10 to 12 hours before that
was taken down. That is now illegal right now.
They have to create a law to say it
is illegal to make pornographic images of somebody. And
but the the pornographic images were extremely demeaning in
a sexual manner. And that is the backlash that
Taylor Swift got for what, what did she do?
What was her crime being a successful woman in
her industry? That's the crime. So how are we
gonna get back at her. We're gonna show what
it looks for her to be in not just
sexual but in demeaning to reduce her to an
animal status as something that is to be used.
That is the kind of backlash that, that people,
that people get. And it's similar with, with racism
that when somebody is at the top of their
game, then you'll notice that the reply will be
reducing, that person will be like going to some
sort of a racial or ethnic slur. And here
is the thing or when it comes to sexism,
racism or ethnic type of slurs, the one thing
that we can say when that happens is it,
that means the person who's throwing that out has
nothing. They have nothing, they've got nothing to say
except for that except for something that is, it's
an effort to try to bring somebody down when
you've got no reason to put them down. It
shows that you've got nothing up here because what
is the argument against Taylor Swift? Right? What is
the argument when it comes to, let's just say
like Beyonce is also an extremely talented artist and
it's just extraordinary what, what is left but some
sort of a combination of racism and sexism and
why it means you've got nothing, it means you
have nothing intellectual to say. Um And we saw
that with, um you know, we've seen that with
uh different figures, whether it's political or athletes when
that stuff comes out, I would really like for
it to stop. But when that stuff comes out,
it also just goes to show the terrible weakness
in whatever the backlash is. And this attempt to
hold on to power because it's always going back
to some sort of a power structure that is
being eradicated and which we realized that power structure
was based on nothing like when it comes to
racism, that power structure was based on a perceived
hierarchy that was arbitrary, arbitrary. And when somebody wants
to go back to that by using those kinds
of that kind of language, they in existential terms,
they are not being authentic to themselves. They're appealing
to a structure that is just nothing like it's
just nothing but that's the kind of thing that
when we're talking about sexuality um and backlash when
women are just claiming their own space, when people
of color are just claiming their own space, just
claiming to take up space in their talent. Um
The resistance to that gets uglier, the more powerful
they are. But that ugliness also tells us how
much that needs to be eradicated as well and
how weak it is.
Uh So I I was also interested in hearing
your thoughts about um the sex industry and sex
workers because I know that uh for example, among
feminists, this is also a very contentious topic. There
are more, I mean, I know that these are
not the precise terms but I, I will call
them sex positive and sex negative feminists. Feminists who
are completely against the sex industry, pornography, prostitution and
all of that and others that, uh, are not
against it. Uh, uh, THEY are not necessarily for,
but they are not against it. So, where do
you stand on that topic since we're also talking
here about, uh, sex?
Yes, I think, um, there is a lot, there
is a lot to, to unpack with this topic.
I thought about it in the United States. It's,
um, it's illegal. I think when it comes to
sex work, I think the parameters are when it
comes to, um, if it's ok if I'm explicit
but I think it's, uh, any kind of penetration,
I think any kind of exchange of fluids, then
that's when it is illegal. But if it is,
um, if that does not take place then it's
legal. So you can, um, do like internet type
stuff. You can, um, be a stripper ad, you
know, dancer. Like that's all legal. It's all under
the umbrella of sex work though, is essentially when
it's some sort of an exchange for money for
some sort of sexual gratification pleasure and some of
it is illegal. Some of it is not. And
I've been thinking about why is it that sex
work, um, let's say when it comes to something
like prostitution, why is that illegal? Because normally when
it comes to something needs to be illegal, it
presupposes there's some sort of harm involved. Any law
you look at is um an attempt to alleviate
or prevent or minimize harm. So when you look
at business is legal and sex is legal, so
why would it be illegal to mix the two
of them? And I was trying to find the
harm and I found it, but it's not a
war. I think this is my theory. I think
that what it is that when it comes to
women's sexuality, um the man historically is always benefited.
So let's just say in a western wedding ceremony,
you've got the woman is in white for the
bride that's to represent her virginity. But that's sexual,
that's she's pure. She's in the white and then
her father is walking her down to give her
away. So he is, she is the property of
her father and she is pure and he's got
this hot commodity that he's walking down the aisle
and then is asked who takes her? And it's
the next man and then her name is transferred
from her father's to her new husband. It's a
transfer property. Don't mention this. If anybody is getting
married any time soon, it'll ruin it. I don't
think that women who are genuinely excited to get
married now or like I can't wait to be
like transferred. You know, and I don't think dads
who are so proud to be walking their daughter
down the aisle are like misogynistic people. Like I'm
just talking about the tradition itself. How I'm gonna
get back to this is that you can see
that um men are the ones who have been
exchanging the woman when women are getting money for
theirselves. That's the offense. Women are now trading their
sexuality and they are the recipients of the funds
for that, not somebody else. And I think that
is the offense. Um I think that when it
comes to, when it comes to sex work, um
the other thing we need to keep in mind
is that it's the women who are shamed. It's
mostly women, men do. Um There are male sex
workers, but it is primarily women because it is,
uh it's primarily a male clientele because men are
the one who are seeking that out more. Um
And the women are the ones who are shamed
for it because of the idea that they're not
supposed to want sex, they're not supposed to get
money for it, but men are not shamed in
the same way because we treat men as though
it makes sense that they're sexual. So I think
that when it comes to our attitudes of sex
work, we have to really pay attention to. First
of all, it makes a lot of money. That's
the reality. We women who are on only fans
or they are, you know, they're, they're making a
lot of money through sex work. And that also
seems to be the other offense. And if you
really want to do something about sex work or
minimize it, you have to make other options appealing.
I mean, if it, if you can make more
money in sex work, then you can, um, getting
over 100 grand in debt from an education or
to become a lawyer or a doctor, you know,
like, or to be a teacher. Right. Like you
have to make the other things more appealing. I
would like to get rid of the shame around
it. But I also have to be um completely
like honest. This is a complicated topic. I absolutely
despise the idea of shaming a woman um who
is making, who is making money. I also want
for her to be protected legally because that's also
vulnerable for abusive situations. And if you're already doing
something illegal, it's infinitely more difficult to go to
the police and say get protection because in the
United States that's illegal. Um If they are killed,
right, nobody's looking for them. There's so that kind
of thing. Absolutely. Um Crushes me. I can see
it in our own American politics right now. The
way that this trial of Donald Trump is being
handled, um that both left wing and right wing
media are disparaging. Stormy Daniels, who is the adult
film actress. That's kind of the impetus of all
of this and both the liberal left. They will
always say porn star, Stormy Daniels and why are
they doing that? They are highlighting the fact that
she is in sex work to embarrass Trump. I
am not a fan of Trump by the way
to be clear. But if Stormy Daniels had any
other profession, if she was a dentist, do you
think, how often do you think they'd mentioned dentist,
Stormy Daniels and her case c they're using, they're
using that they're degrading her, the implication to embarrass
him And right wing media is doing the same
thing. They are talking about her as a porn
star in order to embarrass and diminish her credibility.
That why would he be with her? And so
in the way in this climate, if you were
in sex work, you are less than human, you
are not protected. And I'm it, that's awful. And
then when you make a lot of money at
it, then you're even more despised. So this is
the complexity of it. So I want to be
100% transparent. I also I have a daughter, you
know, the one that you've been seeing running around.
If she were to say this is what she
wants to do for a living, for a profession,
I would want her to do something else. So
that's the complexity of it, right? Like if I'm
being transparent, I don't want any woman to be
in danger. I don't want any woman to be
shamed. Um And at the same time, it's not
a profession that I think that I would want
my daughter to aspire to. So that's why I
have to be completely honest and then I have
to think about why. And it's because maybe this
is like the second wave versus the third wave
feminism. Right? There's a part of me that would
just, um, that I, I think that there would
just be um more to, more, to enjoy out
of life. Um, SO I, at the same time,
I never like, I, I don't know, it's, it's
a complicated issue and I think that it's important,
I mean, that, that I am transparent about that.
Like I can't, I can't run around and um
pretend as though that is something that I would,
that I, I would say that I want for
my daughter to aspire to in the same way
I want for her to aspire to other professions.
So, but what I would love to do is
um just create a society where that is beneficial
where that is a path or that men have
authentic relationships with women in their lives where um
but you know, it's like, well, what, what is
the draw to sex work? Why are you spending
your money on this? What, what is going on?
Is there some way for you to get that
in your interpersonal life? To be honest about your
own sexuality, to be honest about what you want
in the bedroom so that you don't need to
go outside of a relationship to go pay for
it out elsewhere. Like there's also so much um
There's also so much that's closed in relationships like
I'll, I'll give you an example when this is
early on and good is in the details. I
was in touch with a professional Dominatrix and she
had a, a dungeon in um in downtown L
A and she invited for me to come and
interview her and she has a phd in psychology
and she and I are about the same age.
And um I invited my friend who is also
in academia that I met through Simone de Bois
conferences, Dr Ellie Anderson and Ellie now has her
own fantastic podcast called overthink. That's also philosophy based.
And so I asked Ellie if she would come
with me because Rudy, you know, Rudy is very
conservative and he's a big wig lawyer. He, he's
like, I'm, this is not for me and I'm
like, I, I study philosophy, I can do this.
So um and I was also curious, right? I
was just totally curious. So here's a woman this
is under the umbrella of sex work. She's a
phd in psychology and she has a place and
toys and yeah, I wanna go see. But something
that really stood out to me was that all
of the evidence of um being more honest with
your sexuality. And if it includes the Deviant stuff
like B DS M that when people are allowed
to express that they are healthier and happier in
their everyday lives and that she has men who
she is the only person in a lot of
men's lives who are familiar or know what their
needs are and what they want. And she's able
to offer that to them with 100% secrecy privacy.
But they are able to explore a part of
themselves with this woman that they're not able to
anywhere else. And so I think to me that's
one of the issues, especially when it comes to
these ideas about masculinity and femininity. What is it
that men are afraid to admit that they want
from a partner and the more open you are,
then you can find the right partner or partners
if you want an open relationship, a poly amorous
relationship, um a non monogamous relationship, but you still
want your person but you want all these other
things. And so that's also important when we're talking
about sex work. I think that our fascination and
our demonizing on the women who are making money
is, is one of the biggest cultural problems. Um
But it's also why, um why is, is the
industry there in the first place and have an
open and honest conversation about that?
Yeah. So, uh let me just quickly give my
two cents on the topic and please, if you
agree or disagree with anything, I'm about to say,
uh tell me so, but uh uh I mean,
this is a, a very complex topic. I agree
with you but, uh, I'd rather turn on it
from both sides of the aisle. The feminists who
are in favor of it, the feminists who are
against it and also some empirical research and I
guess that, uh, the, the ideas that come to
mind the are that, of course, there's the harm
side of it. And I guess that with that
in mind, at least in certain circumstances, it would
be good for it to be legalized because that
way it's easier for sex workers to get access
to help, to denounce particular situations, to persecute particular
people and so on. It's easier for them to
do that that way. And also when it comes
to, I, I heard this is very interesting. I've
heard, uh, a discussion one time between only fans
girls. It was three of them, they were debating
a conservative guy and one of them said that
he asked them, oh, would you if, if you
met a girl? And she was saying that she
would like to be only friends cam girl or
something like that, would you, what would you tell
her? And she was very honest and sad. Well,
I, I guess I would tell her that it
would depend on her personality traits because I like
being an only fans girl, but it's because of
my personality. So I don't know exactly what kinds
of traits she was referring. To, I would imagine
like uh in the case of being an escort
scoring high on socio sexuality, like liking to be
with multiple uncommitted partners, something like that. Or perhaps
when it comes to personality traits being more open
to experience something like that, I, I mean, I
don't know the exact details there. Uh AND then
when it comes to uh things I've read from
sex workers themselves, of course, there's a multitude of
different experiences that they report. They report, but some
of them actually report positive experiences with their clients
and some of them, even men, for example, when
it comes to clients with certain needs, men with
disabilities, for example, that they are the only way
they can have access to sex and be sexually
satisfied because otherwise it's virtually impossible for them to
have sex with women or with whatever kinds of
partners they prefer. Uh And then there's also organizations
out there, like for example, I've, I've read about
organizations in the UK and the US, specifically in
Las Vegas, I think where ex prostitutes organize and
they go out on the streets and they identify
if people who are selling sex and they approach
them and give them a pamphlet or something like
that. And so you look, if you are ready
or if you'd like to leave this business, your
work, then come to us, we will help you.
So I think that's also very positive. Uh I
I mean, those are just the immediate thoughts that
come to my mind. There would be many, many
other things to talk about. But uh, what do
you think of that?
Yeah, I think um, one of the, see in
the United States there are also um we just
have weird feelings around sex and sexuality. And so
this idea of it being a, just um this
idea of it being like, um a fun or
pleasurable experience. Like there's something very funny about um
hi about um about American culture where we just,
we make, we make sex sound like it's just
completely private and dirty and there's only one way
to do it and things like that. And so
when I think that's also why sex work um
has become so or is so popular, it's because
that's not the way that that's not the way
that sex works. It's not just like this, it's
not just to make a baby real fast. And
then that's the end of the story. You know,
there's a way, there's, there's a lot of closeness,
there's communication, there's playfulness and we don't ever talk
about sex in that way. In fact, um a
lot of places in the United States, if you
get sex education, it's really just describing a fertilized
egg. It's not actually talking about sex. And so
people are just confused and not understanding or they're
taught that it is just some dirty thing that
you're only, maybe only supposed to experience with one
person. And so then you have like, you know
what you're talking about where there's this um people
are enjoying themselves and there's this playfulness to it.
And one woman who was in sex work, she
described it to me. She said I provide an
experience like, like a, like a masseuse she was
describing and I thought I'd never looked at it
that way. Um But I think that one of
the assumptions is that um people who are in
it need to be rescued and they don't want
to, but there's a lot of women. Um AND
men as well that this is something they want
to do. The money is good. It's fun, it's
playful and they enjoy it. Um So I think
that again, one of the things that I think
when we start to have a better idea about
sex education and the value of healthy self, sexual
relationships and by value, I mean that it's a
form of communication, closeness, a way to understand yourselves.
It's a very human thing. Then you can start
to see the decrease of the phenomenon or the
allure of sex work as a profession. Like there
are so many things that need to be in
place. But as long as we are secretive about
sex or talk about it as though like certain
positions or certain ways of doing it or wrong,
you're always gonna have that sex work where people
are going to find it and, you know, you
seek it out, they're gonna do it when people
are not open. Um, BUT I do think the
idea of being rescued, I don't think that applies
to everyone in, in sex work. And so,
isn't it also a little bit condescending or can
be a little bit condescending?
Yeah. Yeah, because some women, like, I mean, I
think, I know what show you're talking about where
they have, they have a conservative person and they
have sex workers on their only fans and there's
just kind of, there's just such a disconnect. It's,
I mean, as far as a show, I guess
it works because you've got like, these two, um,
opposite sides of the spectrum. But what I have
noticed with shows like that is that the men
seem so comfortable in the way in which they
disparage the women, the way they talk about them.
Like Candace Owens who is a conservative thinker. She
was on a show like that and she said
to these women, um, I think your whole life
is fascinating. It's ho flash and, you know, whole
short for a slang for horror. And I, I
was just stunned, this is a woman who talks
about her Christianity and she's sitting there and talking
about women as though they are nothing to their
faces. And it was just like, it was just
extraordinary to me that she felt so comfortable in
talking to these women and just to their face
calling them that, um, and it's a way to
just flatten somebody's personality. So women who engage in
sex work, women who make money from that, uh,
don't forget. Like they also have friends, they have
family members. Um, THEY also want to go to
the movies. Maybe they thought the end of Game
of Thrones sucked too. Like they, they have all
these other parts to them and we're willing to
do that from any, for any other employment. Right.
Like, I think, I mean, my students know for
instance that when I'm on campus and I'm teaching
and I'm the professor that is just one way
of me being. But I clearly am a mom
also. I'm also a partner. I'm somebody who likes
to cook every once in a while and somebody
likes to go on hikes every once in a
while. Like there are all these other aspects to
my personality. Um, WE know that for every worker,
we know that when you go to a restaurant
and you're, you know, you're ordering something from a
server, you know, that they have an end to
their shift that their whole life isn't about bringing
you food. But Candace Owens and some of these
other thinkers are perfectly comfortable in treating a woman
who is making money and actually has work hours
as though that's her entire life and she has
nothing else outside of that and therefore it's ok
to talk about her, like she is a thing.
So, or he, you know, like I said, men
are, men do this as well. It's mostly women
but men do it as well.
Also. Sorry for interrupting. But I guess that when
it comes specifically to conservative women and some of
the sex negative feminists are also conservative is that
they look at sex, uh, female sex workers as
competition.
I think that's part of it. I think it's
because, I mean, that's who their husbands are going
to, right? Like that's, I think that's part of
the, I think that's part of it. And I
think one of the under um the other like
myths that have been taught to women, um is
that your power is in your sexuality and in
your appearance and women who have bought into, that
are the ones who are angry, right? Like, uh
but the truth of the matter is that that's
not your, your power doesn't come from your physical
appearance. Your power comes from, from your capacity for
empathy, listening, learning, being curious, that's genuine power. Even
financial power, right? Like a lot of women are
bought into this idea that if you spend all
your money on plastic surgery or expensive bags, you're
gonna be more powerful because your power is in
your looks. When actually if you took that financial
money, you took that money and invested it, bought
more property. For instance, you've got a lot more
power. So we've convinced women that power is in
their capacity to look young and to be an
object of desire. And if you buy into that,
then you're gonna be angry at women who have
successfully become an object of desire. You're gonna be
pissed at them because you're perceiving that that is
power and that's not, it's not power.
Great. So, Doctor Dolsky, I'm getting really mindful of
your time. So perhaps it's better for us to
wrap up the interview here. Maybe if you're open
to it somewhere in the future, we can do
a second
episode and I'll have a better, I'll have a
better backdrop.
Uh So just really quickly before we go, where
can people find you on the internet? And in
which places can they find your goodies in the
details podcast?
Yeah. Thank you for asking goodies in the details
is available on all platforms. Um You know, apple
overcast, Google, Play, Spotify. Um I love for people
to check out the show. It's definitely one of
my, it's one of my favorite things. It's one
of my favorite things to do to learn to
grow. Um And good is in the details pod
is on Instagram and is also on Facebook and
from my personal page at um Prof Dolsky. That's
me on Instagram.
Great. So I'm leaving links to that in the
description of the interview and thank you so much
for doing this. I really love the conversation.
Thank you. I appreciate it. Have a good day.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by the N Lights
learning and development. Then differently check the website at
N lights.com and also please consider supporting the show
on Patreon or paypal. I would also like to
give a huge thank you to my main patrons
and paypal supporters, Perera Larson Jerry Muller and Frederick
Suno, Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam Kel Matthew
Whitten Bear. No wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Connors,
Philip Forrest Connolly. Then the Met Robert Wine in
NAI Z Mark Nevs calling in Holbrook Field, Governor
Mikel Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferus and
H her meal and Lain Jung Y and the
Samuel K Hes Mark Smith J. Tom Hummel s
friends, David Sloan. Wilson Yaar, Ro Ro Diego, Jan
Punter, Romani Charlotte, Bli Nico Barba, Adam Hunt, Pavlo,
Stassi Nale medicine, Gary G Alman, Sam of Zal
Ari and YPJ Barboa, Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden
Broner Douglas Fry Franca Beto Lati W Cortez or
Solis Scott Zachary FTD and W Daniel Friedman, William
Buckner, Paul Giorgio Lu Loki Georges, Theophano Chris Williams
and Peter Wo David Williams, the Ausa Anton Erickson,
Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore
Larry Dey Junior, Old Ebon Starry Michael Bailey. Then
spur by Robert Grassy Zorn, Jeff mcmahon, Jake, Zul
Barnabas Radick, Mark Kempel. Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris
Tory Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No week in
the Brendan Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley Man, George Katis,
Valentine Steinman, Perras, Kate Van Goler, Alexander Abert Liam
Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer Urla. Good
enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean Nelson, Mike
Levin and Jos Net. A special thanks to my
producers is our web, Jim Frank Luca Toni, Tom
Veg and Bernard N Cortes Dixon Bendik, Muller Thomas
Trumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carl, Negro, Nick
Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Si Adrian Bogdan Knits and Rosie. Thank
you for all.